So yes, it is in just Kenya. Yes, it is.
Hi, this is Anish, if I know from what you are from, how are you doing today?
Good, good. Nice meeting.
All right. Yes. How can I help today?
So I think I just sent an email regarding my, like, some background information.
And, like, mainly, that's two parts. One is like a front B registration.
Right now, I have two entities. One is, like, an entity set up for, like, managing the family wealth.
And my mother would be the director and president.
And this should be the, like, prior or, like, more favorable entity for the front B registration.
However, like, we still haven't obtained the Yian number.
And I think probably the Yian number is necessary for, like, the registration.
So I think probably we, I don't know if we can still use this entity.
And the second entity is the single-members which owned by myself.
And it's Wyoming situated. And I don't know if I can, I can use this one for the, like, owner-benefacial, beneficiary registration.
And I just want to know what would be the, like, implications and, like, challenges.
And this is the first, this is, like, an actual B related.
And the second thing is, like, STEM OPT compliance related issues.
So, previously, I think, I was hired by a company.
And they did, I, for, like, for about one month.
And they pay, I received a paycheck, but they refused to sign on, like, I, not 83.
So I think, like, probably, this could be an issue.
I just want to know what's the, like, how to deal with this strategically.
And the second issue is, like, yeah.
Wait, wait, wait. Let's take one step at the time, right?
Okay. So you have, like, several questions in various areas.
So when did you start on STEM OPT?
STEM OPT started, like, I believe it's 2020 for February.
Okay. Whether you are not on STEM OPT anymore?
Yeah, I'm not on STEM OPT anymore.
Because, like, I, in last September, I transferred it to another, like, school.
So I'm on my second master.
So I'm on the, like, CBT, like, F1 and CBT right now.
Okay. So you transferred to another program at the same level.
Yes.
And what school are you currently attending?
It's called CIM. It's, like, a California Institute of Advanced Management.
Okay. So did you, is it one of those, like, day one, CBT schools?
Yes. Exactly.
Okay.
Which is itself, you know, maybe, maybe an issue with that, for the status maintenance.
So when you applied for STEM OPT, which company I-983 did you use?
So I used with, like, a VCP digital, which is a new database, like, you know, like, it's a real state SM Management firm.
Okay. So you used the I-983 with company A, right?
Yeah.
And you- how long did you work for them after the start of your STEM OPT?
So it's about around, like, a one and a half year.
Okay. For one year and a half.
And did you do the self-evaluation at the end of the first year?
I- I complete all of the evaluations.
Okay. Yeah. All right. So you worked for them for a year and a half.
And that was at the point when you moved to another company that did not file your I-983.
Yes. Yes. You can understand it that way.
What- what- what- what- what was that exactly?
And that's a wrong, like, October, 2024, I believe.
October, November.
Well, if you started your STEM OPT in February, 2024.
Yeah.
And then you worked for a company for a year and a half.
Oh, so, yeah. So the first half- first year is on OPT.
And I only work on, like, a STEM OPT for that company.
Okay. Okay. So you worked for them for another half a year.
Yes.
Okay. And in October, 2024, you moved to another company.
Did you- did you send, you know, the- the information about the new company to your designated school official?
Did you- did you-
Yeah.
Just near whom you then?
Okay.
So I- I don't remember the specific procedural because their company is quite new.
It's, like, a startup.
And they are very unfamiliar with the STEM OPT.
But they- they agree on the, like, hiring.
And they just, like, very unfamiliar with, like, an 80's rate.
And they are lawyers, just, like, give them- give them a red light.
And they- they- they don't want to sign on it.
So-
Did I-
Did they- wait, are they- are they registered with e-verify?
Yes, they do.
As a person, they are, like, email confirmation.
I don't know if they- they actually executed it.
But, like, as the, like, email confirmation from their email- email confirmation, they said they have e-verified.
Okay.
But you knew that you have- like, you- you- you- you couldn't work for a company that wasn't e-verified and that did not provide you with the-
I did three, right?
They- they knew.
So, I- I- I- they- they- they are lawyers, give them, like, a red light, one month after the employment start.
So, they- they- in the first place, they- they agreed on all- all- everything.
Like, you know, like, e-verify, whatever-
I- I- I just- I just- I'm just trying to get the information, like, all the information, all the details.
Okay.
So, when you got their job offer?
Yeah.
Uh, did you- what is- what does your school require for you to do?
Like, um, is it- did you have to report it to the student self-portal?
Yes.
Or, you have to send a message to the DS.
So, what- what did you do?
I- I think, uh, I need to report.
Okay.
Uh, 983.
But there- there's, like, a 10 days grace period, something like that.
So, I- I was trying to obtain the, like, uh, necessary information.
Yeah.
Wait, wait.
I'm not talking about the 983.
Yeah.
I understand that it didn't give it to you.
But did you give this information about the new employment to see- if you reported to see this?
Yes, I did.
Yeah.
It's not- it- at the beginning of the employment, because I want to gather the information.
But-
Okay.
Uh, but eventually, I give them-
You gave the- you gave the name of the company to see this.
If I am, um, the government, and I look and you see this record.
Oh, I see this company name in your see this record.
Uh, I need to double confirm that, actually, because I- probably that goes to DSO.
But I did- did that go to the, like, uh, government?
I don't know.
Okay.
Just, uh, 93, never fired.
You gave this information to the DSO.
Yes.
Did you- when you realized that there were not going to give the 983 to you, did you tell the DSO that you were no longer employed by them?
Did you quit?
Yes.
What did you do?
Uh, okay.
A few months after the employment, I- they- they- they- they- they- they very, uh, explicitly that they will not provide, uh, 983.
So I think this employment is- it's- it's not bad.
Okay.
That- that's when you-
Quit.
Move to another, uh, program?
Uh, I move to another company, actually.
Another company.
Okay.
So how many days were there between the, um, end of your first company and the start of your company?
And the start of the third company employment?
Uh, I need to double confirm that.
But I believe, or everything combined, the- the, like, unemployment days will not exceed the, like, uh, you know, required a period.
So you- they paid you, right?
They paid you.
I have no W2.
Okay.
So in, um, last year, you should have filed your tax returns, right? Did you- did you disclose that, um, income?
Uh, let me see.
Uh, probably I did.
Probably I did.
Wait, they- they should have- regardless of how long you worked with them, they paid you for, um, your services.
Yeah.
Okay.
They should have issued a form W2.
Yeah.
I have the W2.
Yes.
Yes.
You have the W2, and you should have listed them on your CV, right?
Yes.
Okay.
So it is employment.
But it's employment without authorization.
So the- the government, you are state in particular, may take the- the position that you did violate your status.
Okay.
Yeah.
That's something I'm-
Yeah.
I'm concerned with you.
You- you can make an argument later that, you know, you'll quit the employment as soon as you possibly could.
Yeah.
But the form I made in industry should have been provided to the DSO within 10 days of employment.
Okay.
Okay.
So if they didn't give it to you within 10 days, you should have quit at that point and report a no- no employment to the DSO.
So that they could, you know, take it off your record.
Okay.
Okay.
Because right now, they take you.
You have them on the record.
And, you know, it's concerning because that could be employment without authorization.
Because if they, you know, they don't look at your employment history.
And there- there would be this employer on STEM OPT that, you know, you don't even know if they were registered with E-Verified.
You know, they didn't provide you with the I-903.
I think that you- you know, it's good that you didn't work longer than you did.
Because maybe you saw that they would still, you know, they would still come forward with the I-903 and so on and so forth.
So I think that, you know, you have to disclose the employment.
Okay.
And it sounds like you already did.
You put it on your tax return.
It's in your CV.
If you were giving your employment history, you would have listed them.
So you- you're not hiding it.
But, you know, if U.S.J.S later comes back, then you will need to make a very strong argument that wasn't your fault.
You know, you reported the employment because you got the employment offer.
You reported it to seniors and that's what you were supposed to do.
And when you realized that they wouldn't be issued in the I-903, you quit their employment.
But, you know, it was already- you were already on the job because that's what, you know, how it happened.
So it's a sympathetic situation.
And I think that you can make the argument that, you know, if there was employment without proper authorization, then it wasn't through the fault of your own.
But, you know, it may come up at some point in the future when U.S.J.S. is looking through your record.
Because what happens when the company fills out the I-903, and you take it to the DSO, the DSO puts this information off the I-903 form.
And they input it in your student record, okay?
Okay.
And so they- I, you know, I don't know exactly what the DSO do because I don't have access to seniors in the, you know, current form.
But you may want to go back to that BDS DSO that you had and ask them, what is in your record?
Just so that, you know, you may want to ask them, you know, to take a screenshot of your employment history and ask them to tell you if, you know, this company is clearly in your record as one of the STEMO PT employers.
And if the record is missing anything whatsoever, okay?
So that's how I would approach that. In terms of the registration, okay?
Okay.
So the company, and I cannot give you business for advice, okay?
You may want to discuss this with an employment law attorney or business attorney about what makes the company a legitimate company, okay?
Yeah, yeah. I have the, like, a separate, like, a corporate lawyer for this, definitely.
Okay. Well, good. So if the company is not something that you own, which is, you know, the second choice that you have, which is not a good choice.
Okay.
But if this company wants to hire you and they are a legitimate company that needs the requirements of a business entity and they can file the registration information, then that would be the best choice.
Ask for the company that you own, okay?
Okay.
It is very difficult to be sponsored by the company that you own.
It would require a lot of documentation to show that you are a separate person.
You are not the company. The company is a separate entity.
Usually that's achieved by establishing a board of directors, okay?
Okay.
And maybe not, like, having less than a, you know, than a decisive stake in the company.
So if you own 49% of the company and you are not making hiring and firing decisions, then you can be sponsored by the company that you own a stake in.
But, you know, self sponsorship is not allowed for H&D, right?
But there's a modernization rule, isn't it? Like a self sponsorship?
Well, that was very easy. You know, if you just go out, you declare a company and you just say, I'm self-employed and I'm sponsoring my own H&D.
Okay.
So what the rules allow you to do is to have a stake in the company.
But the company must be a separate entity from you.
You cannot be self-employed in the pure sense of it.
Okay.
So, like, let me ask a practical question.
So right now, like, for the EIN, because my mother is, like, she does not have a SSM.
And for her to obtain a EIN number, I think it may take one month to one and a half from, like, I-I-S.
So one possible way for us to do this is, could I be the responsible person to actually register for the EIN number?
No.
No.
No.
You cannot be a petitioner and you cannot petition on your own behalf.
No, no, no.
Not a register for H1B petition, but a register for, like, EIN number.
I understand that.
But if you are an agent for the company, then that becomes, you become, you know, this is a management tradition.
So we have to be really careful not to, like, step over the line, you know, if there is any evidence that you make decisions for the company, then that sponsorship is not going to work.
So this is, you know, we are getting, like, to the end of the call, but what I would recommend that you do.
We have attorneys who practice almost exclusively, you know, in this area of the law.
And if you, I think you may want to get, like, a follow-up consultation just, you know, to understand how the sponsorship works.
And what you can and cannot do in terms of, you know, setting up the company, how to set up the company.
And what would be a business model, you know, because a familial relationship, just like between you and your mom, may also be a problem, okay?
Because they, you know, the entity that sponsors you must be completely separate and should not be influenced by, you know, familial relationship or something like that.
So you, you understand how you can do it in the most kind of conservative and safe way.
I think you should schedule another call. I understand that you have to, like, pay for the call, but I think it would be worth it.
And just let the receptionist know that you want to speak with an attorney specifically about owning a company that files your H1D petition, okay?
And that could be partial ownership, that could be familial relationship.
They will schedule you with the attorney.
Yeah, but I think that's a very practical, like, a problem right now.
So, like, if I cannot obtain the, like, yay number on time, I think, like, just, that's a hard constraint, isn't it?
So, like, the practical question is, it's not, like, how should I structure this?
What is actually practical at this moment?
Practically speaking, the company must be separate from you.
So if you have a partner, for example, that you have your company with, then you should probably divide up the stakes between you and your partner as, you know, 49 to 51.
So that you don't make any firing, hiring, managerial decisions for the company.
Okay.
All right.
I think that, practically speaking, you can learn a lot, you know, about how to establish and manage those relationships so that you could be sponsored by a company that you partially own.
Okay. Let me think about it.
Okay. All right.
So, do you think, like, we should, like, proceed with, like, actually be a registration with one of the entities right now, or there must be, like, additional consultation required?
I don't think we have enough time for this.
It's not a requirement, okay?
But I have a very big concern about you, your company is sponsoring you, okay?
It's going to be self-sponsorship, which is not allowed.
I, so I'm not sure.
But if that's not allowed, what is, like, an F&B modernization ruling specifically?
Yeah. You can't have a stake in the company, but you know, you cannot make all of this. You cannot be completely self-sponsored.
But I think that's exactly what, like, the only beneficial category is created, like, last year, right?
Okay. So, this is what I'm telling you.
If you want to learn more about how to structure that company, you should really speak with somebody and just devote a whole, you know, consultation slots to that, because there's a lot to think about there.
Okay. So, like, what's the next step? Like, that's another requirement.
I think the timeline is approaching, and probably there's not just that much time for us to have consultation one and one after another.
So, I'm not sure what you're looking for right now.
I'm looking for, like, a registration. Definitely. We are going to register for that. Yeah.
So, have you heard about, like, the control and employee relationship?
Yes, I've heard of it. Like, in my belief, that's not a very contradictory to the modernization ruling.
You have to make sure that the company that you own is a separate entity from you.
Okay.
With all that, that entails.
Okay.
Okay. Let me do a couple of research.
Okay. Just ask the next step. Like, can you please send your, like, an actual fee registration, like a fee schedule and service coverage as an email?
So, I can't actually review it, and, like, let me think about the next step.
Okay. Sure. We will do that. I will ask somebody to send you the things, okay?
Like, just one additional, like, a procedural question. You will be the person who is going to handle the case in the firm, or there will be...
No, I work in this special project department. We deal with complex cases, appeals, motions, so we don't make, you know, initial filings, usually.
Okay. No, your case will be handled by the non-independence of the department.
Okay. So, can you please, like, include the name of the, like, a person who is going to handle my case in the email as well?
No, I cannot do that. We have attorneys in each department, so cases are assigned based on the work loads.
Okay. But, I think, at least, I need to know who is handling my case. Who is responsible for it?
Yeah. Once you hire a, the case will be assigned to the attorney who is able to handle your case at that moment in time.
Okay. We cannot give you the name before the case actually comes in.
Okay. Okay. So, let me just wait for your email. Would you, like, send it today, or, like, sometime, like, around this week?
I'm sorry. What did you say?
Would you, would you, like, send that email, like, today, or sometime around this week?
Or is this equal? We can do it today.
Okay. Okay. That works.
All right. Sounds good. Have a good day. Bye-bye.
