Hi, hello.
Hello, good afternoon.
Hi, good afternoon.
Hello.
Hi there, how are you?
Good, good.
Very nice to meet you.
My name is Caitlin Bach.
I'm one of the partners here at Syrismeta and Partners.
Nice to meet you.
My name is Trim Uli.
Nice to meet Trim Esferli.
Tell me what we can help you with today.
I believe I have already included my basic information in your email.
I have some specific questions regarding first.
It's a family member as the owner.
She will employ me for further like H1B lottery.
That's one question and the other is like a STEM OPT compliance related issue.
Let's go with one by one.
For H1B, the first question is given my two entities.
One is Wyoming single-member IRC.
I am the 100% owner.
The other is newly incorporated California CCorp,
where my mother is the president and so director.
Which should the fire at H1B like a petition and why?
Okay, so just to back up a little bit, could you tell me what your field is?
The field is like a apply.
The degree name is apply analytics.
It's data science and data analytics focused.
Okay, and what kind of position would you be fulfilling for either of both of these entities?
What kind of job would you be performing?
Financial and a specialist.
Okay, so generally to touch on first the company that's owned by your mother.
Generally, there's no prohibition in the immigration laws that govern H1Bs
from a company that is owned by a family member from employing you in H1B status.
So that by itself wouldn't prevent the company from sponsoring you.
But if the company is owned primarily or solely by a relative,
it often invites some additional scrutiny from USCIS about whether the job is real,
whether you will really be paid the required salary and the like.
There is some tendency from USCIS to think that if a family member's company is sponsoring you,
maybe it's not valid, maybe this is just an arrangement that was entered into to get you a visa.
So I would say that that's not inherently prohibited.
But it might be necessary for you to really thoroughly document that the company is real in operating,
that the job is real and the like.
So USCIS treat a family member as independent decision maker or do they actually apply
the de facto control analysis and the capital like H1B like addition to 18 months.
So because I think like for self-implement it's basically 18 months instead of like three years.
Yes, so if it's a family member, that wouldn't the family member is treated as independent of you.
So it's not treated as self-employment if the company is owned by a relative, by a family member.
So should I register one company for the lottery or should I register like for both?
Through both.
That is up to you.
You know, it is different multiple companies can enter you in the H1B lottery,
certainly if multiple companies employ you then or enter you then that would increase your chances of selection.
So I don't see any harm in doing that provided that both companies would genuinely employ you if you are selected.
You also are correct that USCIS now recognizes H1B beneficiaries who have an ownership interest in the employer as being able to qualify for H1B classification.
Again, though there are some additional layers of scrutiny that are applied to those petitions to ensure that it is that there is a formal legal entity.
It mustn't be a sole proprietorship and that the position is valid that it is a specialty occupation.
So you'll be paid the required salary and you're correct that the initial petition is limited to 18 months of validity.
If it's merely a relative that has an ownership interest in another company that that should not be limited to 18 months that would be treated differently.
Okay. So for the 100K fee, basically like a transfer of service, like a change of status versus like a transfer of processing.
Like, would that matter to my case or it doesn't matter at all?
Typically, it doesn't matter.
However, now as you may be aware, an additional fee has been implemented for new H1B petitions.
It's a $78,000 fee.
This fee does not apply to H1B beneficiaries who are changing status in the US, but it does apply to those who are abroad and processing it at consulate for the visa.
In your case, it might be a little bit of a great area because you are in the US currently in F1 status.
But if you were to file for consular processing, I think there is a risk that there could be some confusion about whether this fee applies to you.
As such from that perspective, it can be favorable to apply for a change of status in the US to avoid any complications with the new fee.
Okay, so let's delve into the STEM OPT compliance related questions.
So first thing is like during my STEM OPT period, namely like 2023 to 2025, I operated like as a single member, a single member I have seen and generated some schedule see income from incomeers.
And this was not reported to my DSO and was outside my 980-3 training plan.
Does this constitute like an authorized employment under their regulations and policies?
This is only for like one month and a couple hundred dollars.
So I didn't realize this would be deemed as an employment and this is how this issue arises.
So tell me more about the LLC, what was the nature of the business, what was your role in it?
So it mainly serves as a asset holding vehicle.
So I push on money inside it, I have brokerage account and money is how to ask stock and bounce inside it.
And that's the supposed nature of that business.
But so I do this something else, that's just some side things.
I register like e-commerce like a business on Amazon and generally like a 500 revenue in revenue.
I just didn't realize this is something problematic.
And now I think the issue is present.
So it certainly could be problematic.
If the LLC was created solely for investment purposes and the income it was generating was essentially passive
and you weren't performing job duties, then there could be an argument that it wasn't really...
It wasn't employment, you weren't performing a job, it was essentially a vehicle for an investment.
However, you know, something like setting up an e-commerce platform and selling items, that could be problematic.
Generally forced MLPT purposes, any employment that's not part of and not disclosed in the training plan is likely to be treated as an authorized employment.
So it's a little bit unclear because you're not...
You aren't working for a company, that's the sort of typical way that we think about employment.
But it was something that was generating income and that you were working on outside of the training plan.
So it's not entirely clear cut given the nature of the activities that you were engaging in, but there is a risk that that could be viewed as an authorized employment.
Okay, so like given the situation and what's the strategic like an answering what we should give to the administration and the like...
So because this like this business is completely delegated to some like all sorts like you know partners.
Can I use that like a contract as a proof that I'm only passively like own this entity and I'm not engaging to the day-to-day operation?
That would be one strategy yes is to provide that documentation and figure out a way to characterize this yes as basically passive investment and to emphasize that you didn't actually have any role in the day-to-day operations.
You weren't performing job duties, you were you were essentially an investor that that would be one one strategy for for dealing with this yes.
Okay, so the other like a thing which is also crucial one employer during during that period during the STEM OPT period never signed my I-88 and I already worked for them for like one month.
I received a paycheck and as well as the W-2 but they just they said they after like reviewing they said there they are they are unfamiliar with like the I-93 this kind of the whole process and the STEM OPT like employment.
So they said they cannot sign it so I terminate that employment immediately but like there's one month salary and like a without like I-983 and I think they are either if I that's my belief.
Okay, so with regards to this I would suggest this was sort of beyond your control because the employer evidently knew that you know that you were on STEM OPT that you would need sponsorship from them or support from them in that way.
So if they agreed and and later basically changed their mind and you you discontinued the employment I think it could be argued that that was not unauthorized employment because the failure was on the part of the employer.
You didn't intend to engage in in any unauthorized employment. Got it. Okay, so again there is a risk one one can't predict exactly how this will be perceived by USCIS but here given that the compliance issue was from the employer side and not yours.
I think that that would be one way of of characterizing this issue.
So so when filing for H1B change of status USCIS requests like paid past apps and like tax returns. So like my tax returns show like schedule C income from the RLC just like issue we mentioned before.
So would that be like should we like disclose this you know like actively or there's like a discovery discovery ability risk they will discover themselves and they will be more like scrutinizing against this issue.
Sure so for H1B extension purposes or for a change of status when the the prior status has related to employment USCIS typically requires proof that you that you have been employed consistent with with an H1B or consistent with stem OPT.
So typically they want to see forms W2 or payroll statements showing showing that you were employed that you were paid the required wage they they don't typically for H1B purposes require complete copies of your tax returns showing all income.
So I don't believe that you would need to provide that there are sort of two schools of thought as to whether it's better to disclose issues like this upfront.
I mean it would require some more thought and some more research but right at the outset my inclination would probably be to disclose it but explain that you were a passive investor and were not performing job duties for the entity.
If you don't disclose it and USCIS does find out one way or the other there is a risk that they could they could view that as this representation they could view it as failing to disclose relevant information and that that can certainly be problematic if they think that you have withheld information that relates to your eligibility for the H1B classification.
So I would suggest that it probably might be better to disclose it and explain it upfront rather than risking USCIS finding out on their own and then you know making a determination that maybe you weren't as honest as you should have been.
So should I like affirmatively I think this is fine.
So I think I'm good on like the demo beauty part so regarding the like engagement and logistics like if I returned retain the firm like who would actually handle my case day to day would be you or like the meta himself.
It could be any of the attorneys in the phone if you would like to work with a specific attorney you can you can certainly let us know that and we can see whether we would accommodate but essentially any of our attorneys would handle H1B related matters you would also communicate for logistics sharing documents and the like with probably one of our paralegals in the phone.
Got paralegals so it's like the one who scheduled this meeting called like LaShon is he is she one of the paralegals at the firm.
You know that LaShon is our administrative assistant she handles scheduling appointments.
So it's just like my personal experience but like I think LaShon didn't handle like my case very timely and the appointment are we we're supposing we are supposed to schedule appointment yesterday and like I think it's very unclear the message is it's messages she sent me and like
after received no reply from like confirmation from my side there's just no like a response follow up from her and she's very impatient in dealing with my case with my case and I just like I think generally if like in the in the future I retain the firm I prefer other person personally out in the firm to handle my case that's my purpose.
Sure well I am sorry to hear that you know you you had that experience again LaShon is our administrative assistant so she is not involved in any of the legal aspects of cases.
It is my understanding just to let you know that there was no response from your into the confirmation message we do require clients who are scheduled in consultations with us to confirm.
Otherwise you know it takes up a lot of the attorneys time if an appointment is scheduled and the individual has maybe changed their mind and they don't they don't let us know so we do just require that you confirm in order to secure the time for the application.
Yeah so like after I send a message I think this is a little bit like a diversion to our like a main topic but like I just want to make it clear I go after I send a message she did not reply immediately I need to call her in order to for her to reply to my email I think that's unacceptable in my case and today I when I when I ask her like she did not include any payment information and I need to actually send an email to confirm with her.
How should I pay and she said like you should calling ahead and without any like an indication what does that mean it's very ambiguous language to me and I need to call her to actually find out she remains like I need to provide a credit card information to her.
I think this is just too much like overhead for me to ask the client to handle right like I think this is divergent but like I just want to make it clear.
Yeah. Thank you for being aware of that.
Okay so what is the trophy estimate for the like registration plus like a petition and filing.
So does this include the STEM of ET compliance like issues like addressing as well.
So if you were to retain our firm for the for the H1B registration process and to file the H1B petition itself.
STEM OPT issues would be covered in in in so far as they arise you know during the H1B petition or if there were to be a request for evidence or or something along those lines asking for more information or an explanation of the STEM OPT issues.
Then the fee that we would charge for the H1B petition or for responding to the the RFE you know would would be included.
If you would like additional separate advice on the STEM OPT compliance issues then that would not be encompassed by a retainer for the H1B itself.
Typically our our standard fee for an H1B registration and petition is $3,510 and 40% of that would be required at the time of the registration.
The remainder would be do only if the registration is selected and an H1B petition can be filed on your behalf by the employer.
So that is our yes please go ahead.
So that's approximately like four times like the 2000 like a front rate.
Is that correct?
I'm sorry.
Is that correct? It's my understanding correct.
The payment due at the registration time should be $1,560.
$1,404 would be do yes at the time of registration and the remainder at the time of selection if your registration is selected.
Got it. Okay.
So I think the timeline is quite tight right now.
So the window opens at March 4th and what would be the timeline to get like a registration submit?
Like what's your estimated like timeline for this and what at which specific like a timeframe do you require me to submit to give you or provide you with some like a
specific like documents?
We would require all relevant documentation and information to be provided by the third given that the registration period opens on the 4th and the registration would be completed from our side, you know,
something in any time during the registration period.
Got it.
So like a so would you provide any like a like a legal memo or like affirmative like a disclosure disclosure strategy?
Like to me during this whole process or that's is that like included or separate or that's undoable?
It's not typically our practice to include a legal memo, but we would be happy to you know summarize a discussion of the strategy and an email.
Okay.
Okay.
That's great.
So on your website you sell like the $312 like consultation fee would be like a credit for the engagement and like if that's true,
please like also confirm this in email as well.
That's okay.
Yes.
The fee is credited if the client retains within 30 days of the consultation.
Got it.
So we're not we're not able to provide the credit if you decide much later to proceed.
Okay.
Okay.
So I think for now that's everything from me and I don't know like if you have any other questions you want to ask.
Not not at this time.
No, I think that covers everything from my side.
Got it.
I think because the C Corp is newly formed in which like my mother would be the president and the director.
So do you want to actually provide some guidance on like a corporate structuring like you know shareholder like certificates, the kind of things.
So we can be more like you know complied to us as like guidance or like you would prefer a separate individual like a corporate lawyer to handle this.
Some we can certainly provide some guidance as to what USCIS expects to see.
But the exact format and structure that at the company should take or that the documentation should be in maybe a little bit outside of our scope.
So I think that involving a corporate lawyer there might be might be helpful as well.
But we can you know we can certainly provide a list of the types of documents that USCIS likes to see or something along those lines.
Got it.
So everything for that like a C Corp should be submitted by third.
Yes, that's right.
The documentation that would be needed for for the H1B relating to the company should be ready as soon as possible.
Not all of the documentation has to be provided with the registration itself, but it would be best if it could be ready at that time so that we can ensure that everything looks in order before we do the registration.
It would certainly be disappointing to proceed with the registration find out you're selected and then at the time of getting the petition ready find out that there's that there's an issue.
Got it. So what's the specific like documents you need because I'm like actually in the like a progress process to actually prepare them.
So bank account probably like a EIN and like article of organization what else like that's right.
Generally some share certificates the companies you know incorporation documents one would also need to see you know financials so proof that the company can pay you the offer wage.
So if it isn't filing tax returns yet that that might probably look like a bank statements or you know if there is some kind of probably a profit and loss statement couldn't even be prepared yet but some kind of budget some statement about the company's assets signed by an officer of the company which might be your mother.
And some some financial documentation to show that they will be able to pay you the offered salary.
Got it. But you've mentioned like a balance sheet and a profit and loss. I think like because it's newly formed probably I can provide the you know like a capital contribution that can record.
Yes. Yes. Operating history is not available. Right. Right.
Got it. So so in summary like that the C core is more preferable than the single memberable.
Most likely yes there may still be some challenges because it is a new company and it is owned by a family member so that could invite some additional scrutiny from USCIS but in general I think that that would be a more viable pathway than an entity that you own sponsoring you for self employment USCIS tends to be quite strict on on those petitions.
And it's fairly recent that they even allow them so I would yes I think that overall the C core is probably likely to be the more viable pathway.
Got it. All right. I think that that's all of my questions and I will be waiting for your like email which includes like a fee schedule and the summary and anything any other information want to include.
And and if I receive I would decide like I think we should have started as soon as possible. Yeah.
So so we would we would provide if you would like to retain us you can let us know that and we would provide you with our engagement agreement which would list the terms of the representation and the and the fees from there you know we're happy to provide.
An outline of the strategy a list of the documents that we would need from you but for now you know we would not share that information until until you let us know if you would like to proceed that makes it yeah of course.
All right. I think that's or everything from myself.
Okay. Okay. Great. Well, it was very nice to meet you. Yeah.
You're welcome to let me know if you have any additional questions or if you would like to go ahead.
You should have my email address in the invitation and you're welcome to reach out to me directly.
Of course. Thank you for it. Okay. Thank you. Take care. Bye.
Bye.
